Teaching Statement
============
Teaching and mentoring students. As instructor of winter session course, Bio503 Introduction to Programming and Statistical Modelling in R in the Biostatistics Department at Harvard TH Chan School of Public Health (2008-2016), I was responsible for creating the course syllabus, materials, supervision of a teaching assistant (2014-2016), awarding grades and office hours. The course attracted 20-30 students; undergraduate, graduate, faculty from Public Health, Epidemiology and Biostatistics, in addition to researchers from local hospitals and other Harvard Schools, who highly rated the course and I received several recognition letters from our department chair. As guest lecturer on Bio508 Genomic Data Manipulation, Bio290 Genomics and Genetics for Health Research, I taught cutting-edge bioinformatics methodology. My skills in teaching were developed when I was a bioinformatics training officer at the UK Biology and Biotechnology Research Council and co-instructed over 700 hours of 1-3 day hands-on workshops in Unix/Linux, DNA sequence analysis, phylogenetic analysis and protein structure modeling.

Engaging peer-to-peer knowledge to advance science. To promote open source software R/Bioconductor, I taught peer training workshops in data analysis of large-scale genomics data at Harvard, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, New York and European Bioinformatics Institute, UK. To engage the wider Boston bioinformatics community, I co-founded Boston R/Bioconductor for Genomics that organizes 6 meetings per year for academics, pharma, biotech companies and data science professionals. This group has regional impact and membership exceeding 750 members. Meetings have focused on Genomics in the Cloud, Single-Cell RNAseq, Pharmcogenomics, Drug Discovery, Proteomics, Spatial single cell transcriptomics, Containers and Docker, High Memory Computation, Multi-omics Data Integration. 

Supporting diversity in the next generation of scientists. To encourage students from disadvantaged background into science I participate in the National Institute for Health Continuing Umbrella of Research Experiences program.  To engage children in Science, Technology, Engineering and Math, I chair the STEM committee, organize science events and in-classroom workshops at a local school.  

I approach teaching with enthusiasm, organization and mutual respect because effective teaching and mentoring develop life-long learners.  My teaching philosophy is summarized by the following tenants:
•	Engagement. The syllabus includes historical background, cutting-edge research and real-life applications. Students are given problem-solving opportunities, become actively engaged, “see the point” of learning, and are encouraged to master the subject beyond the content of the class.  
•	Flexible instructional, supporting diversity. Students come from diverse backgrounds and have diverse learning styles. Course materials are organized, support in-class, at-home and online learning, aural, visual and hands-on learning. Student progress is tracked through regular communication, assignments, and quizzes
•	Supporting social emotional learning. Students who feel emotionally safe, part of the community, display resilience and strive for excellence. Students are held to high expectations and failure is normalized. There is an expectation of accountability, respect and cooperation in a class that encourages curiosity.  Team activities build community and create peer to peer support

